Stylometry is the quantitative study of literary style through computational distant reading methods.
It is based on the observation that authors tend to write in relatively consistent, recognizable and unique ways.
 For example:

Each person has their own unique vocabulary, sometimes rich, sometimes limited. Although a larger vocabulary
is usually associated with literary quality, this is not always the case. Ernest Hemingway is famous for using a
surprisingly small number of different words in his writing,1 which did not prevent him from winning the Nobel Prize
for Literature in 1954.
Some people write in short sentences, while others prefer long blocks of text consisting of many clauses.
No two people use semicolons, em-dashes, and other forms of punctuation in the exact same way.
The ways in which writers use small function words, such as articles, prepositions and conjunctions,
has proven particularly telling. In a survey of historical and current stylometric methods,
Efstathios Stamatatos points out that function words are “used in a largely unconscious manner by the authors,
and they are topic-independent.”2 For stylometric analysis, this is very advantageous, as such an unconscious pattern is
likely to vary less, over an author’s corpus, than his or her general vocabulary. (It is also very hard for a would-be forger
to copy.) Function words have also been identified as important markers of literary genre and of chronology.

Scholars have used stylometry as a tool to study a variety of cultural questions. For example, a considerable
amount of research has studied the differences between the ways in which men and women write3 or are written about.
4 Other scholars have studied the ways in which a sudden change in writing style within a single text may indicate plagiarism,
5 and even the manner in which lyrics penned by musicians John Lennon and Paul McCartney grew progressively less cheerful and
less active as the Beatles approached the end of their recording career in the 1960s.6

However, one of the most common applications of stylometry is in authorship attribution. Given an anonymous text,
 it is sometimes possible to guess who wrote it by measuring certain features, like the average number of words per sentence
 or the propensity of the author to use “while” instead of “whilst”, and comparing the measurements with other texts written
 by the suspected author. This is what we will be doing in this lesson, using as our test case perhaps the most famous instance
 of disputed authorship in political writing history, that of the Federalist Papers.